'\" t
.TH ASM 1 "22 MAR 1997"
.SH NAME
asm \- SPARC assembler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B asm
[
.B \-O
.BI \-o\  output_filename
.B \-L
.B \-l
]
.I infile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B asm
Assembles SPARC Version 8 assembly language programs and turn them into NetBSD/sparc 1.1
object code modules.
.PP
.B asm
is a standard, two-pass assembler that accepts all of the SunOS assembler
directives, most of the GNU assembler directives, and all of the suggested
assembly language outlined in ``The SPARC Architecture Manual'', Version 8.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.B \-0
Output information on stderr about offsets of various segments in the 
final object file.
.TP
.BI \-o\  output_filename
Use
.I output_filename
as the name of the final object file. Default is to use
.I a.out
as the name of the final object file.
.TP
.B \-L
Keep (in symbol table) local symbols, which, by convention, start with `L'
.TP
.B \-l
Output symbol table debugging information on stderr
.SH FILES
.I infile
must be specified.
.B asm
reads the input file twice during assembly.
.SH BUGS
.PP
The way it handles floating-point constants is apparently compiler-dependent.
Compiled with GNU C, it can handle the small floating-point constant called
FLT_MIN.  Compiled with lcc v3.5, it cannot.
.PP
It's slower than it ought to be.
.PP
It assembles SPARC V8 mnemonics just as SPARC V9 machines are appearing.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PD
.BR The SPARC Architecture Manual, Version 8
ISBN 0-13-825001-4, Prentice Hall, 1992
.SH AUTHOR
Bruce Ediger, bediger@csn.net
.PP
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,
without any conditions or restrictions.  This software is provided ``as
is'' without express or implied warranty.
